---
title: Create a UCWA Windows Store app project
TOCTitle: Create a UCWA Windows Store app project
ms:assetid: 2c080512-8a01-4739-98da-93e2d9f8d839
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/Dn551188(v=office.15)
ms:contentKeyID: 60829952
ms.date: 07/25/2014
mtps_version: v=office.15
description: Learn how to create a UCWA Windows Store app project using Visual Studio with this step-by-step tutorial from Microsoft. Start your coding journey today.
---

# Create a UCWA Windows Store app project

**Applies to:** Lync 2013 | Lync Server 2013

This tutorial walks you through the steps to create a UCWA Windows Store app project using Visual Studio.

For more information, see [Create your first Windows Store app using C\# or Visual Basic](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh974581.aspx).

The procedures in this series of articles assume that Visual Studio 2013 is used.

## Create a C\#/XAML Windows Store App Project

1. Launch Visual Studio and select a new project by clicking **File-\>New-\>Project…** menu items.
    
   - Click **Templates-\>Visual C\#-\>Windows Store** from the panel of the **Installed** templates on the left part of the **New Project** window.
   - Select the **Blank App (XAML)** project template, and enter an appropriate project name (e.g., **WinStoreUcwaAppHello**) and location (e.g., *C:\\UCWA\\Work\\WinStoreAppHello*). 
   - Make sure that the application targeted namespace is **.NET Framework 4.5**.

2.  In Solution Explorer under the newly created (e.g., **WinStoreUcwaAppHello**) application project, right click **MainPage.xaml** and select **Delete** option from the popup menu panel. Click **OK** to confirm the **Delete** request.

3.  Right click the project name (**WinStoreUcwaAppHello**) in the Solution Explorer to select the **Add** and then **New Item** menu options.

4.  In the **Add New Item** popup window, highlight the **Basic Page** item, change the **Name** field to MainPage.xaml or any other file name except for the default page file name (BasicPage1.xaml), and then click **Add**.
    
   > [!NOTE]
   > When prompted by Visual Studio to confirm "Add the missing files automatically?", click **Yes**. This ensures that the helper files, such as NavigationHelper.cs and SuspensionManager.cs, which are generated by Visual Studio to work with the Basic Page template, are added to the project.

That’s it. We now have created a basic Windows Store App project in C\#/XAML. You can hit the F5 key to build and run the application in the Debug mode. As of now, the application does not do much other than showing up a page with the text of "My Application". To stop the run, press Alt and F4 keys at the same time.

We now move on to adding the UCWA-specific programming tasks to the application project.

## See also

- [Start creating UCWA Windows Store apps](start-creating-ucwa-windows-store-apps.md)
- [Create your first Windows Store app using C\# or Visual Basic](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh974581.aspx)
- [Enable fluid user interface](enable-fluid-user-interface.md)
- [Ensure responsive HTTP operations](ensure-responsive-http-operations.md)
- [Implement the UCWA sign-in workflow](implement-the-ucwa-sign-in-workflow.md)
- [Putting it all together](putting-it-all-together.md)

